# Inaugural project

The **results** of the project can be seen from running [inauguralproject.ipynb](inauguralproject.ipynb) and [inauguralproject.py](inauguralproject.py). The project aims to calculate the optimal choice of housing quality and consumption. In Q1, we find that the optimal allocation of house quality = 4.17 and consumption = 0.35 with a total expenditure=cash-on-hand=0.50. This gives us a utility of 0.74. In Q2 we plot the optimal allocation. In Q3 we calculate the average taxburden per household. We find that for a population of 10,000 people, the average taxburden is some 36,000 DKK. In Q4 we change the parameters and find that the new average taxburden is some 45,000 DKK. In Q5 we find that in order for the average tax burden to be equal to Q3 (some 36,000 DKK) with new model parameters the flat housing tax, $tau^g$, has to be lowered from 0.01 to 0.00767

**Dependencies:** Apart from a standard Anaconda Python 3 installation, the project requires no further packages. Besides this, we import the following packages within the [inauguralproject.ipynb](inauguralproject.ipynb); numpy, scipy, matplotlib.pyplot, random, time, seaborn and our [inauguralproject.py](inauguralproject.py) as pyfile.

# Data project
The data project shows how different sectors are affected, and how age, gender and sector employed vary in unemployment and employment. In this project we use data from Statistics Denmark. We collect data by using their API, where we have extracted data on the gross unemployment and the employment since 2008, by the tables: AUS07, AUP02, LBESK01. Furthermore, we have collected data regarding job vacancies from the table LSK01. 

**Dependencies:** Apart from a standard Anaconda Python 3 installation, the project requires the DST packages with the following code: "pip install git+https://github.com/elben10/pydst". Besides this, no further packages needs installation. We import the following packages numpy, scipy, matplotlib.pyplot, random, time, seaborn and ipywidgets. 
